Modify rule S5131: add patch instructions for expressjs (#977)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S5131/javascript/expressjs/rule.adoc

include::../../summary.adoc[]

== Why is this an issue?

include::../../rationale.adoc[]

include::../../impact.adoc[]

include::../../threats.adoc[]

== How to fix it?

> The following code is vulnerable to Cross-Site Scripting because it returns an HTML response that contains user input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code is vulnerable to cross-site scripting because it returns an HTML response that contains unsanitized user input.
```

If you do not intend to send HTML code to the clients, the vulnerability can be resolved by telling them what data they are receiving.
For example, you can use the `JsonResponse` class to safely return JSON messages.

[cols="a,a"]
|===
|
[source,javascript]
----
function (req, res) {
    json = JSON.stringify({ "data": req.query.input });
    res.send(tainted); // Noncompliant
};
----
|
[source,javascript]
----
function (req, res) {
    res.json({ "data": req.query.input });
};
----
|===

> It is also possible to set the content-type manually using the `content_type` parameter when creating an `HttpResponse` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also possible to set the content-type header manually using the `content_type` parameter when creating an `HttpResponse` object.
```

[cols="a,a"]
|===
|
[source,javascript]
----
function (req, res) {
    res.send(req.query.input); // Noncompliant
};
----
|
[source,javascript]
----
function (req, res) {
    res.set('Content-Type', 'text/plain');
    res.send(req.query.input);
};
----
|===

=== How does this work?

In case the response consists of HTML code, it is highly recommended to use a template engine like https://ejs.co/[ejs] to generate it.

> A proper template engine does not only separate the view from the business logic and thus results in a more maintainable application.
> It also automatically encodes variable output and thus drastically decreases the chance of introducing Cross-Site Scripting vulnerabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This template engine separates the view from the business logic and automatically encodes the output of variables, drastically reducing the risk of cross-site scripting vulnerabilities.
```

> If you do not intend to send HTML code to the clients, the vulnerability can be resolved by telling them what data they are receiving with the `content-type` HTTP header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not intend to send HTML code to clients, the vulnerability can be resolved by telling them what data they are receiving with the `content-type` HTTP header.
```

> This tells the browser that the response does not contain HTML code and should not be parsed and interpreted as HTML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This header tells the browser that the response does not contain HTML code and should not be parsed and interpreted as HTML.
```

> Thus, the response is not vulnerable to reflected Cross-Site Scripting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, the HTTP response is not vulnerable to reflected Cross-Site Scripting.
```

Reviewer: This clarity suggestion could by the way also be applied to the "big review"

> For example, setting the content-type to `text/plain` allows to safely reflect user input since browsers will not try to parse and execute the response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, setting the content-type header to `text/plain` allows to safely reflect user input since browsers will not try to parse and execute the response.
```

=== Pitfalls

include::../../common/pitfalls/content-types.adoc[]

include::../../common/pitfalls/validation.adoc[]

== Resources

> === Documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
include::../../common/resources/docs.adoc[]
```
